README.md, before:

# way-displays: Auto Manage Your Wayland Displays

<img align="right" width="427" height="189" title="credit: Stephen Barratt" src="doc/layouts.png?raw=true">

1. Set resolution/refresh: preferred, highest or custom

1. Enable VRR / adaptive sync

1. Arrange in a row or a column

1. Auto scale based on DPI: 96 is a scale of 1

1. Update when displays plugged/unplugged

1. Update when laptop lid closed/opened

Works out of the box: no configuration required.

Wayland successor to [xlayoutdisplay](https://github.com/alex-courtis/xlayoutdisplay), inspired by [kanshi](https://sr.ht/~emersion/kanshi/).

See wiki for [Configuration](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration), [Recipes](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Recipes), [Troubleshooting](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Troubleshooting) and more.

## Requirements

A wlroots based compositor that supports the WLR Output Management protocol.

way-displays is blessed for the [sway](https://swaywm.org/) and [river](https://github.com/riverwm/river). It may work on others.

[Hpyrland](https://hyprland.org/) provides all way-displays functionality and you may experience issues.

way-displays must be run as a daemon, a background server process. It will respond to your configuration changes as well as state changes such as plugging in a monitor or closing the lid.

User should be a member of the `input` group for querying laptop lid state.

## Quick Start

Start with the default config file:
```sh
mkdir -p ~/.config/way-displays
cp /etc/way-displays/cfg.yaml ~/.config/way-displays/cfg.yaml
```

Add yourself to the `input` group to monitor events: 
```sh
sudo usermod -a -G input "${USER}"
```

Start the way-displays server:

### Sway

Remove any `output` commands from your sway config file and add the following:
```
exec way-displays > /tmp/way-displays.${XDG_VTNR}.${USER}.log 2>&1
```

### River

Add the following to your `init`:
```sh
way-displays > /tmp/way-displays.${XDG_VTNR}.${USER}.log 2>&1 &
```

### Mako Notification Daemon, Optional

`way-displays` will send notifications by default:

`CALLBACK_CMD: notify-send "way-displays ${CALLBACK_LEVEL}" "${CALLBACK_MSG}"`

Add the following the above config/init:
```sh
mako > "/tmp/mako.${XDG_VTNR}.${USER}.log" 2>&1 &
```

### Configure

Restart the compositor and run `way-displays -g` or look at `/tmp/way-displays.1.me.log`.

Tweak [cfg.yaml](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration#cfgyaml) to your liking and save it. Changes will be immediately applied.

Alternatively, use the [command line](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration#command-line) to make your changes then persist them with `way-displays -w`. See `man way-displays`

You might want to `tail -f /tmp/way-displays.1.me.log` whilst you are tweaking.

## Usage

See [Configuration](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration) for details on `cfg.yaml` and the command line.

Start the `way-displays` server by running once with no arguments after your wayland compositor has been started.

It will remain in the background, responding to changes, such as plugging in a display, and will terminate when you exit the compositor.

It will print messages to inform you of everything that is going on.

You can interact with the server via the [command line](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration#command-line)

The server responds to [IPC](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/IPC) requests to fetch and mutate state.

## Installation

### Package Manager

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/way-displays.svg)](https://repology.org/project/way-displays/versions)

### From Source

[![CI](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/actions/workflows/ci.yml?query=branch%3Amaster)

See [CONTRIBUTING](doc/CONTRIBUTING.md)

#### Install / Uninstall

```
sudo make install
sudo make uninstall
```

## Issues

Please [collect debug logs](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Troubleshooting#logs-tell-you-everything), create a [github issue](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/issues) and attach your log.

## Questions, Ideas And Contributions

Please raise a [github issue](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/issues)

[Contributions](doc/CONTRIBUTING.md) are most gratefully received, see [Milestones](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/milestones) for prioritised issues.

Commit message:

docs: explicitly state that Hyprland is not supported

README.md, after:

# way-displays: Auto Manage Your Wayland Displays

<img align="right" width="427" height="189" title="credit: Stephen Barratt" src="doc/layouts.png?raw=true">

1. Set resolution/refresh: preferred, highest or custom

1. Enable VRR / adaptive sync

1. Arrange in a row or a column

1. Auto scale based on DPI: 96 is a scale of 1

1. Update when displays plugged/unplugged

1. Update when laptop lid closed/opened

Works out of the box: no configuration required.

Wayland successor to [xlayoutdisplay](https://github.com/alex-courtis/xlayoutdisplay), inspired by [kanshi](https://sr.ht/~emersion/kanshi/).

See wiki for [Configuration](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration), [Recipes](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Recipes), [Troubleshooting](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Troubleshooting) and more.

## Requirements

A wlroots based compositor that supports the WLR Output Management protocol.

way-displays is blessed for the [sway](https://swaywm.org/) and [river](https://github.com/riverwm/river). It may work on others; please tell me of your experiences!

[Hpyrland](https://hyprland.org/) already provides all the features of `way-displays`. It may function, however it is explicitly not supported and you will likely experience problems. Please do not raise issues.

way-displays must be run as a daemon, a background server process. It will respond to your configuration changes as well as state changes such as plugging in a monitor or closing the lid.

User should be a member of the `input` group for querying laptop lid state.

## Quick Start

Start with the default config file:
```sh
mkdir -p ~/.config/way-displays
cp /etc/way-displays/cfg.yaml ~/.config/way-displays/cfg.yaml
```

Add yourself to the `input` group to monitor events: 
```sh
sudo usermod -a -G input "${USER}"
```

Start the way-displays server:

### Sway

Remove any `output` commands from your sway config file and add the following:
```
exec way-displays > /tmp/way-displays.${XDG_VTNR}.${USER}.log 2>&1
```

### River

Add the following to your `init`:
```sh
way-displays > /tmp/way-displays.${XDG_VTNR}.${USER}.log 2>&1 &
```

### Mako Notification Daemon, Optional

`way-displays` will send notifications by default:

`CALLBACK_CMD: notify-send "way-displays ${CALLBACK_LEVEL}" "${CALLBACK_MSG}"`

Add the following the above config/init:
```sh
mako > "/tmp/mako.${XDG_VTNR}.${USER}.log" 2>&1 &
```

### Configure

Restart the compositor and run `way-displays -g` or look at `/tmp/way-displays.1.me.log`.

Tweak [cfg.yaml](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration#cfgyaml) to your liking and save it. Changes will be immediately applied.

Alternatively, use the [command line](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration#command-line) to make your changes then persist them with `way-displays -w`. See `man way-displays`

You might want to `tail -f /tmp/way-displays.1.me.log` whilst you are tweaking.

## Usage

See [Configuration](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration) for details on `cfg.yaml` and the command line.

Start the `way-displays` server by running once with no arguments after your wayland compositor has been started.

It will remain in the background, responding to changes, such as plugging in a display, and will terminate when you exit the compositor.

It will print messages to inform you of everything that is going on.

You can interact with the server via the [command line](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Configuration#command-line)

The server responds to [IPC](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/IPC) requests to fetch and mutate state.

## Installation

### Package Manager

[![Packaging status](https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/way-displays.svg)](https://repology.org/project/way-displays/versions)

### From Source

[![CI](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/actions/workflows/ci.yml?query=branch%3Amaster)

See [CONTRIBUTING](doc/CONTRIBUTING.md)

#### Install / Uninstall

```
sudo make install
sudo make uninstall
```

## Issues

Please [collect debug logs](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/wiki/Troubleshooting#logs-tell-you-everything), create a [github issue](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/issues) and attach your log.

## Questions, Ideas And Contributions

Please raise a [github issue](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/issues)

[Contributions](doc/CONTRIBUTING.md) are most gratefully received, see [Milestones](https://github.com/alex-courtis/way-displays/milestones) for prioritised issues.
